wolfcrypt_test/README.md, before:

# wolfCrypt Example for Atmel ATECC508A

This example demonstrates the wolfCrypt test and benchmark applications with the Atmel ATECC508 ECC 256-bit hardware accelerator.

## Benchmarks
Software only implementation (SAMD21 48Mhz Cortex-M0, Fast Math TFM-ASM):
`ECC  256 key generation  3123.000 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`
`EC-DHE   key agreement   3117.000 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`
`EC-DSA   sign   time     1997.000 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`
`EC-DSA   verify time     5057.000 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`

ATECC508A HW accelerated implementation:
`ECC  256 key generation  144.400 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`
`EC-DHE   key agreement   134.200 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`
`EC-DSA   sign   time     293.400 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`
`EC-DSA   verify time     208.400 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`

For reference the benchmarks for RNG, AES, MD5, SHA and SHA256 are:
`RNG      25 kB took 0.784 seconds,    0.031 MB/s (coming from the ATECC508A)`
`AES      25 kB took 0.177 seconds,    0.138 MB/s`
`MD5      25 kB took 0.050 seconds,    0.488 MB/s`
`SHA      25 kB took 0.141 seconds,    0.173 MB/s`
`SHA-256  25 kB took 0.352 seconds,    0.069 MB/s`

## Installation
### Setup

The Atmel ATECC508A chips come from the factory un-programmed and need to be provisioned. Atmel provided us code as reference which exists in `cryptoauthlib/certs/provision.c`. The function is `atcatls_device_provision` and can be called more than once. If the device is not provisioned it will set it up with default slot settings. If its already provisioned it will skip.

### Building

The wolfCrypt test example is setup to be built from a terminal using GCC ARM and a Makefile in the `wolfcrypt_test/build/gcc` directory.

Example:

```
cd wolfcrypt_test/build/gcc
make
MKDIR   common/utils/interrupt/
CC      common/utils/interrupt/interrupt_sam_nvic.o
MKDIR   common2/services/delay/sam0/
CC      common2/services/delay/sam0/systick_counter.o
MKDIR   ../wolfcrypt_test/
CC      ../wolfcrypt_test/main.o
MKDIR   sam0/boards/samd21_xplained_pro/
CC      sam0/boards/samd21_xplained_pro/board_init.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/port/
CC      sam0/drivers/port/port.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/sercom/i2c/i2c_sam0/
CC      sam0/drivers/sercom/i2c/i2c_sam0/i2c_master.o
CC      sam0/drivers/sercom/sercom.o
CC      sam0/drivers/sercom/sercom_interrupt.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/rtc/rtc_sam_d_r/
CC      sam0/drivers/rtc/rtc_sam_d_r/rtc_count.o
CC      sam0/drivers/rtc/rtc_sam_d_r/rtc_count_interrupt.o
CC      sam0/drivers/rtc/rtc_sam_d_r/rtc_calendar.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/tcc/
CC      sam0/drivers/tcc/tcc.o
CC      sam0/drivers/tcc/tcc_callback.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/sercom/usart/
CC      sam0/drivers/sercom/usart/usart.o
CC      sam0/drivers/sercom/usart/usart_interrupt.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/system/clock/clock_samd21_r21_da/
CC      sam0/drivers/system/clock/clock_samd21_r21_da/clock.o
CC      sam0/drivers/system/clock/clock_samd21_r21_da/gclk.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/system/interrupt/
CC      sam0/drivers/system/interrupt/system_interrupt.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/system/pinmux/
CC      sam0/drivers/system/pinmux/pinmux.o
CC      sam0/drivers/system/system.o
MKDIR   sam0/utils/cmsis/samd21/source/gcc/
CC      sam0/utils/cmsis/samd21/source/gcc/startup_samd21.o
CC      sam0/utils/cmsis/samd21/source/system_samd21.o
MKDIR   sam0/utils/stdio/
CC      sam0/utils/stdio/read.o
CC      sam0/utils/stdio/write.o
MKDIR   sam0/utils/syscalls/gcc/
CC      sam0/utils/syscalls/gcc/syscalls.o
MKDIR   ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/random.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/logging.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/memory.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/wc_encrypt.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/wc_port.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/error.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/signature.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/hash.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/asn.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/aes.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/dh.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/md5.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/hmac.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/rsa.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/sha.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/sha256.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/sha512.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/curve25519.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/ed25519.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/ecc.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/tfm.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/integer.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/fe_low_mem.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/ge_low_mem.o
MKDIR   ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/port/atmel/
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/port/atmel/atmel.o
MKDIR   ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/test/
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/test/test.o
MKDIR   ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/benchmark/
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/benchmark/benchmark.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/basic/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/basic/atca_basic.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/basic/atca_helpers.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/tls/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/tls/atcatls.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atca_iface.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atca_command.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atca_device.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atca_cfgs.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/host/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/host/atca_host.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/hal/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/hal/atca_hal.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/hal/hal_samd21_i2c_asf.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/hal/hal_samd21_timer_asf.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/certs/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/certs/provision.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/certs/cert_def_1_signer.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/certs/cert_def_2_device.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/crypto/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/crypto/atca_crypto_sw_sha1.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/crypto/atca_crypto_sw_sha2.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/crypto/hashes/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/crypto/hashes/sha1_routines.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/crypto/hashes/sha2_routines.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/atcacert/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atcacert/atcacert_date.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atcacert/atcacert_client.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atcacert/atcacert_def.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atcacert/atcacert_der.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atcacert/atcacert_host_hw.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atcacert/atcacert_host_sw.o
LN      wolfcrypt_flash.elf
SIZE    wolfcrypt_flash.elf
wolfcrypt_flash.elf  :
section               size         addr
.text              0x1b598          0x0
.relocate            0x1b8   0x20000000
.bss                 0x984   0x200001b8
.stack              0x4004   0x20000b3c
.ARM.attributes       0x28          0x0
.comment              0x6e          0x0
.debug_info        0x400cd          0x0
.debug_abbrev       0x5ea8          0x0
.debug_aranges      0x19b0          0x0
.debug_ranges       0x16d0          0x0
.debug_macro       0x227b2          0x0
.debug_line        0x1a9a1          0x0
.debug_str         0x9f0f2          0x0
.debug_frame        0x6670          0x0
Total             0x14ba18


   text	   data	    bss	    dec	    hex	filename
0x1b598	  0x1b8	 0x4988	 131288	  200d8	wolfcrypt_flash.elf
OBJDUMP wolfcrypt_flash.lss
NM      wolfcrypt_flash.sym
OBJCOPY wolfcrypt_flash.hex
OBJCOPY wolfcrypt_flash.bin
```

### Programming
Use the resulting wolfcrypt_flash.bin to program your microcontroller using JTAG.

Using edgb (see included `wolfcrypt_test/build/gcc/flash.sh` script):
`edbg -bpv -t atmel_cm0p -f ./wolfcrypt_flash.bin`

### Debugging

GDB with pipe (see included `wolfcrypt_test/build/gcc/debug.sh` script):
`arm-none-eabi-gdb wolfcrypt_flash.elf -ex 'target remote | openocd -c "gdb_port pipe;" -f ../../../../utils/openocd/atmel_samd21_xplained_pro.cfg'
load`

GDB with remote port:
`arm-none-eabi-gdb wolfcrypt_flash.elf -ex 'target remote localhost:9993'`
`openocd -c "gdb_port 9993;" -f ../../../../utils/openocd/atmel_samd21_xplained_pro.cfg`

Commit message:

Updates to README.md with new config details and updated paths. Updates to WINC1500 driver from latest ASF.

wolfcrypt_test/README.md, after:

# wolfCrypt Example for Atmel ATECC508A

This example demonstrates the wolfCrypt test and benchmark applications with the Atmel ATECC508 ECC 256-bit hardware accelerator.

## Benchmarks
Software only implementation (SAMD21 48Mhz Cortex-M0, Fast Math TFM-ASM):
`ECC  256 key generation  3123.000 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`
`EC-DHE   key agreement   3117.000 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`
`EC-DSA   sign   time     1997.000 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`
`EC-DSA   verify time     5057.000 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`

ATECC508A HW accelerated implementation:
`ECC  256 key generation  144.400 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`
`EC-DHE   key agreement   134.200 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`
`EC-DSA   sign   time     293.400 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`
`EC-DSA   verify time     208.400 milliseconds, avg over 5 iterations`

For reference the benchmarks for RNG, AES, MD5, SHA and SHA256 are:
`RNG      25 kB took 0.784 seconds,    0.031 MB/s (coming from the ATECC508A)`
`AES      25 kB took 0.177 seconds,    0.138 MB/s`
`MD5      25 kB took 0.050 seconds,    0.488 MB/s`
`SHA      25 kB took 0.141 seconds,    0.173 MB/s`
`SHA-256  25 kB took 0.352 seconds,    0.069 MB/s`

## Installation
### Setup

The Atmel ATECC508A chips come from the factory un-programmed and need to be provisioned. Atmel provided us code as reference which exists in `cryptoauthlib/certs/provision.c`. The function is `atcatls_device_provision` and can be called more than once. If the device is not provisioned it will set it up with default slot settings. If its already provisioned it will skip.

The programming interface is SWD. The SAMD21 Xplained Pro board has a built in J-Link programmer.

You can configure your UART port in "config/conf_uart_serial.h" as either the UART at EXT2/EXT3 (PTB11 and PTB10 - default) or the EDBG CDC UART. The default baud rate is 115200. Use terminal software such as CoolTerm or Putty to interface to the console.

### Building

The wolfCrypt test example is setup to be built from a terminal using GCC ARM and a Makefile in the `wolfcrypt_test/build/gcc` directory.

Example:

```
cd wolfcrypt_test/build/gcc
make
MKDIR   common/utils/interrupt/
CC      common/utils/interrupt/interrupt_sam_nvic.o
MKDIR   common2/services/delay/sam0/
CC      common2/services/delay/sam0/systick_counter.o
MKDIR   ../wolfcrypt_test/
CC      ../wolfcrypt_test/main.o
MKDIR   sam0/boards/samd21_xplained_pro/
CC      sam0/boards/samd21_xplained_pro/board_init.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/port/
CC      sam0/drivers/port/port.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/sercom/i2c/i2c_sam0/
CC      sam0/drivers/sercom/i2c/i2c_sam0/i2c_master.o
CC      sam0/drivers/sercom/sercom.o
CC      sam0/drivers/sercom/sercom_interrupt.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/rtc/rtc_sam_d_r/
CC      sam0/drivers/rtc/rtc_sam_d_r/rtc_count.o
CC      sam0/drivers/rtc/rtc_sam_d_r/rtc_count_interrupt.o
CC      sam0/drivers/rtc/rtc_sam_d_r/rtc_calendar.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/tcc/
CC      sam0/drivers/tcc/tcc.o
CC      sam0/drivers/tcc/tcc_callback.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/sercom/usart/
CC      sam0/drivers/sercom/usart/usart.o
CC      sam0/drivers/sercom/usart/usart_interrupt.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/system/clock/clock_samd21_r21_da/
CC      sam0/drivers/system/clock/clock_samd21_r21_da/clock.o
CC      sam0/drivers/system/clock/clock_samd21_r21_da/gclk.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/system/interrupt/
CC      sam0/drivers/system/interrupt/system_interrupt.o
MKDIR   sam0/drivers/system/pinmux/
CC      sam0/drivers/system/pinmux/pinmux.o
CC      sam0/drivers/system/system.o
MKDIR   sam0/utils/cmsis/samd21/source/gcc/
CC      sam0/utils/cmsis/samd21/source/gcc/startup_samd21.o
CC      sam0/utils/cmsis/samd21/source/system_samd21.o
MKDIR   sam0/utils/stdio/
CC      sam0/utils/stdio/read.o
CC      sam0/utils/stdio/write.o
MKDIR   sam0/utils/syscalls/gcc/
CC      sam0/utils/syscalls/gcc/syscalls.o
MKDIR   ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/random.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/logging.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/memory.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/wc_encrypt.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/wc_port.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/error.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/signature.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/hash.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/asn.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/aes.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/dh.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/md5.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/hmac.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/rsa.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/sha.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/sha256.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/sha512.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/curve25519.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/ed25519.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/ecc.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/tfm.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/integer.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/fe_low_mem.o
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/ge_low_mem.o
MKDIR   ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/port/atmel/
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/src/port/atmel/atmel.o
MKDIR   ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/test/
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/test/test.o
MKDIR   ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/benchmark/
CC      ../wolfssl/wolfcrypt/benchmark/benchmark.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/basic/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/basic/atca_basic.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/basic/atca_helpers.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/tls/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/tls/atcatls.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atca_iface.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atca_command.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atca_device.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atca_cfgs.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/host/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/host/atca_host.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/hal/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/hal/atca_hal.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/hal/hal_samd21_i2c_asf.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/hal/hal_samd21_timer_asf.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/certs/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/certs/provision.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/certs/cert_def_1_signer.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/certs/cert_def_2_device.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/crypto/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/crypto/atca_crypto_sw_sha1.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/crypto/atca_crypto_sw_sha2.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/crypto/hashes/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/crypto/hashes/sha1_routines.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/crypto/hashes/sha2_routines.o
MKDIR   ../cryptoauthlib/atcacert/
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atcacert/atcacert_date.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atcacert/atcacert_client.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atcacert/atcacert_def.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atcacert/atcacert_der.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atcacert/atcacert_host_hw.o
CC      ../cryptoauthlib/atcacert/atcacert_host_sw.o
LN      wolfcrypt_flash.elf
SIZE    wolfcrypt_flash.elf
wolfcrypt_flash.elf  :
section               size         addr
.text              0x1b598          0x0
.relocate            0x1b8   0x20000000
.bss                 0x984   0x200001b8
.stack              0x4004   0x20000b3c
.ARM.attributes       0x28          0x0
.comment              0x6e          0x0
.debug_info        0x400cd          0x0
.debug_abbrev       0x5ea8          0x0
.debug_aranges      0x19b0          0x0
.debug_ranges       0x16d0          0x0
.debug_macro       0x227b2          0x0
.debug_line        0x1a9a1          0x0
.debug_str         0x9f0f2          0x0
.debug_frame        0x6670          0x0
Total             0x14ba18


   text	   data	    bss	    dec	    hex	filename
0x1b598	  0x1b8	 0x4988	 131288	  200d8	wolfcrypt_flash.elf
OBJDUMP wolfcrypt_flash.lss
NM      wolfcrypt_flash.sym
OBJCOPY wolfcrypt_flash.hex
OBJCOPY wolfcrypt_flash.bin
```

### Programming
Use the resulting wolfcrypt_flash.bin to program your microcontroller using JTAG.

Using edgb (see included `wolfcrypt_test/build/gcc/flash.sh` script):
`edbg -bpv -t atmel_cm0p -f ./wolfcrypt_flash.bin`

### Debugging

GDB with pipe (see included `wolfcrypt_test/build/gcc/debug.sh` script):
`arm-none-eabi-gdb wolfcrypt_flash.elf -ex 'target remote | openocd -c "gdb_port pipe;" -f ../../../../utils/openocd/atmel_samd21_xplained_pro.cfg'
load`

GDB with remote port:
`arm-none-eabi-gdb wolfcrypt_flash.elf -ex 'target remote localhost:9993'`
`openocd -c "gdb_port 9993;" -f ../../../../utils/openocd/atmel_samd21_xplained_pro.cfg`
